In this section, we will see you and listener breakpoints among different breakpoint types.
There are different types of breakpoints available in the developer tools debugging pane.
Let us begin with a very commonly used line point, also known as line of code breakpoint, which I
have already mentioned.
When the exact region of the code to debug is known, then we can use line breakpoints.
We have already seen this by clicking near the line number.
We can place a line breakpoint and at the time of execution, the debugger pauses when such breakpoints
are encountered.
Like this.
To use event listener breakpoints.
First, let us understand what is an event listener?
Event listener is an internal process that waits for any event to occur so that the action which has
to execute after that event is fired can be executed.
We already have discussed about event listener and add event listener methods inside the Domme sections.
The events here can be any key press on the keyboard or the mouse click single or double click by the
user's.
And even listener matter in JavaScript is an inbuilt function to add event listeners, which we have
already seen.
But here I have used the on click event handler directly on the button.
So the event listener breakpoints are used when you want to pause the execution on the code that runs
after an event is fired.
In the debugging pane under this event.
Listener Break Points Tree.
That is a list of different types of events like animation.
DOM Mutation that is modification of DOM structure.
Drag and drop events.
Device.
Keyboard events.
Lord Events.
Mouse events, touch and window events, etc..
As the edition is performed on the Button Click Event, let me put the event listener breakpoint.
I will expand this mouse option.
Under that check the click option.
So when I click on the button, the click event is fired and the debugger pauses on it.
Expand this past event listener option and select this set enriched DML option under it.
This will pass when it finds enriched.
HTML used.
When I click on the button, it will pause on the click event as it is the first breakpoint and now
resume the execution.
It paused on this line with enriched HTML and not here.
Because if the inputs are empty, it causes dysfunction.
And if I resume again, it displays the interactive HTML content.
If I provide the values and then click, it will pass on this line.
So this is how you can place breakpoints for different events like mouse keyboard load, window animation,
etc..